# McGill

An open version of my work at McGill

CC-BY-NC-SA_4.0

## Motivation for this repo
I have been whining for years about the flaws of science, or rather of the social system for scientific production. I took a few depressions and a pandemic to finally to finally stop worrying and start working openly. Skipping on the details, I will just say that the open science mindset is so much more confortable than the standard one. I must not lie though, it is hard work to change the workflow. I however strongly beleive the individual efficiency loss is nothing compared to the collective efficiency gain. That is probably what makes the process so exciting to me--"finally ALL my work will turnout at least a little usefull". I could go on and explain in detail how open science can be awesome (it is in my opinion not awesome yet, but getting there). There is plenty of hard and soft litterature on that so I'll let the reader make its own mind. I will instead take the opportinuty here to document my personal process for my transistion toward open science, hoping to fill what seems to be a gap in collective knowledge and respond to the comment I have always myself made: "yeah, open science principals are great, but how can I personally make the transition?".

## Before my open science epiphany
I was, like many, a very stressed researcher. I welcomed collaboration but at the same time was challenged and inhibited by issues of attribution. I wanted to talk about my work but feared getting scooped. A closely related paper came out and I was excited to read it but felt a pinch of worry that it is "too related".
I did my best to organize my own work in my own computer, but I did so while constantly trying new expirmental methods that come with new tools, and with a code literacy that was not taught to me but learned by just coding stuff with my friend Google. The results: a mess on which you cannot do otherwise than to pile more mess.
Then you need to produce something like papers and a thesis. You roll up your sleeves and pinch your nose and from the 3-thesis-worth mess of a pile, houray! you pull out the string of a story.
The releif is short. You are told to just write it, but your bride wants it deeply anchored in your data and the litterature, but finding the strong pilars in the mushy pile of code, spreadheets, various file formats, so many notes, pieces of text, figures, powerpoint presentations, multiple endnote bobliography of 1000 references and 3 one-foot high paper stacks, yeah finding the pilars is hard, and they never feel strong enough. You then just need November to deprive you of the sun to tip you into depression.
Luckily I have friends and colleagues to support me, and to tell me everybody feels at least somewhat that way. So why the fuck? I wondered! Do we really need to go through that? Pre-agricultural revolution hunter gatherer societies worked on averaged 25 (maybe 35, can't remember) hours a week (https://www.ynharari.com/book/sapiens-2/). Yes we may have needed to work our asses off to stop dying at 12 from an infected wound, but with the technology of a few more century can't we at least reserve some time to figure out ways to work collectively better? I was sure there was a way, but I was stuck, and angry all the time.

